hi I'm Sean Regan technical editor with
make the Sun can be a useful source of
free heat for your home on those cool
winter days unfortunately it can also be
a troublesome source of free heat for
your home on those hot summer days many
people use many blinds to help regulate
the Sun it works but it's a manual
process that's not exactly an ideal
solution if only there were a way to
automate your blinds well in today's
weekend project we're going to be using
our favorite little microcontroller the
Arduino to do just that with the mini
blind minder by Steve Hofer the Arduino
uses a temperature sensor to read the
room temperature and activates a servo
motor to open the many blind slats if
it's too cool or close them if it's too
warm it has an adjustable thermostat so
you can set your own comfort zone and it
can also be operated manually so you can
open or close your blinds with the push
of a button you can pick up almost
everything you need to build this
project at your local radio shack and it
only requires a moderate amount of
soldering so you can easily build it in
a day you'll also need these tools
we'll start this project by modifying
the project enclosure for the various
buttons switches and components that we
need for this build all the details can
be found on the project page next we
will pre wire all the components that
are located on the outside of the
enclosure box it's a good idea to heat
shrink all the bare wire connections to
help prevent any electrical shorts we're
going to be building our own custom
shield for the Arduino it's not as hard
as it sounds and it's a great way to get
exactly what you need for a custom
project like this one the only critical
part of building the shield is the
alignment of the pins that are connected
to the Arduino you will need to bend a
header pin or two to get an exact fit
take your time and make sure everything
lines up nicely now we can add all the
components to our custom Arduino shield
start with the 10 kiloohm potentiometer
then add the 100 ohm resistors to 10
kilo ohm resistors the 3 pin header for
the servo and finally the jumper wires
needed to connect all the components
follow the schematics from the project
page soldering each component to the
board as needed after you verify
everything is soldered in correctly
place the shield on the Arduino and
connect the servo now you can connect
the Arduino to your computer and
download the mini blind minder code as a
zip file a link to the file can be found
on the project page there are two
programs that you'll need to run prior
to the final code for the mini blind
minder first upload the calibrate servo
code to the Arduino once uploaded adjust
the screw on the side of the servo until
the servo stops turning next upload the
test servo code the servo should
oscillate between turning clockwise and
counterclockwise with a one-second pause
between if not double check your
connections and recalibrate the servo if
it all works
you can upload the final code called
mini blind minder to your Arduino now
that the servo is calibrated we'll
disconnect it and install all the
external components to our enclosure
start by attaching a servo to the case
with the four self-threading screws next
secure the switch buttons and power plug
in place with their retaining nuts
attach the LED with a dab of hot glue
the temperature sensor is also installed
using hot glue and it should stick out
the bottom of the case a bit so we can
get an accurate temperature reading from
the room now we'll connect the remaining
parts of the build solder the manual
override switch up button and down
button to the shield next wire up the
LED and ground connections now you can
solder the power connector and the wires
from the temperature sensor and then
reconnect the servo to the Arduino next
you'll need to do a few calibration
tests for your specific mini-blinds it's
really easy just follow the steps found
on the project page and you will be
ready to go in just a few minutes to
permanently install your project attach
the case to the window frame with two
wood screws positioned it vertically so
that your blinds wand fits between the
spokes of the servo horn but doesn't hit
the top of the servo next make a simple
slip clutch by looping the rubber band
around the wand and two of the spokes of
the servo horn this will keep the servo
from damaging anything in case something
goes wrong
power it up and watch the magic you can
adjust the temperature the mini blind
minder in one degree increments to suit
your needs the LED will show you if it
thinks the room is too hot or cold now
whenever the temperature changes your
blinds will respond accordingly and
without any human intervention this is
really just the beginning of what could
be a whole house automation system the
basic concept is reading a sensor and
performing a task you could easily add a
motion sensor to keep unwanted eyes to
themselves or use the same basic
concepts and different sensors to
automate almost anything in your home
you